Evolutionary history of the satellite dark halos during a merger

Abstract

Understanding the dynamical properties of dark matter halos during mergers is an important ingredient for models of galaxy formation. In this thesis, we study evolutionary histories of satellite dark matter haloes using N-body simulations. We show that halo mergers in the present-day universe have more circular orbits than those in earlier universe. We also find evidence for correlations between the orbits and environment effects based of Press-Schechter mass function.
Our merging simulations cover a wide parameter space in terms of mass ratio, energy and eccentricity. We find that the mass loss of the satellites is primarily affected by the orbital parameters and the shape of the host halo potential. We compare N-body simulation results with an analytic Chandrasekhar theory of dynamical friction. Based on average rate of mass loss of the satellite haloes with randomly selected eccentricities, we find that the analytic approach with a free parameter α=0.4 for mass loss can reproduce the N-body simulation results.

Chapter 1
Preface
In now days, the most preferred cosmological model is Hierarchical Cosmology, which is a small scale to large scale through merging. The mechanics interpretation of the merging halo is essential to understand the process of galaxy formation and evolution. Despite having a detailed understanding of the merging process between the Halos, the previous studies have overlooked the merging process or described the merging process using a very simple approximation (Chandrasekhar 1943). In addition, the orbital information distribution of the merging satellite halo used in most semi-analytic model (SAM) not only uses the orbit information calculated in the present universe (z=0), but also does not use sufficient samples.
In the Chandrasekhar approximation, the satellite Halo loses all of its mass as it enters the virial radius of the central halo. The merging time is so short that the role of the merging satellite halo is not much in this case. Figure 1.1 is an X-ray image of the Fornax cluster. Unlike the merge process described in the Chandrasekhar approximation, the X-ray observations result in a satellite halo that is not merged inside the virial radius of the central halo. Recent numerical simulations have shown that merging satellite halo in a large scale halo group survives for a considerable time (Klypin etal. 1998; Moore et al. 1999a). As the merging time of the satellite halo increases, it interacts with the central halo, so the role of the merging satellite halo is not only negligible but also a very important physical phenomenon for understanding galaxy formation and evolution. Unlike the Chandrasekhar approximation method, the current merging process of Halo is a phenomenon in which the satellite halo is moving in the gravitational field of the central halo and gradually loses its angular momentum by the dynamic frictional force. Observation results are similar to the currently understanding merge process (Chiba 2002; Dalal & Kochanke 2002; Metcalf & Madau 2001). The subhalos found in galaxy scale have a detailed understanding of the distribution and characteristics of the subhalo (Ghigna et al. 1998; Torment, Diaferio & Syer 1998; Mooer et al. 1999b; van den Bosch et al. 1999; Zhang et al 2002; Gnedin 2003a, b; Benson et al. 2004; Diemand, Moore & Stadel 2004; Gao et al. 2004).
The study of the orbital information of the subhalo, however, is still lacking. The orbital information of the subhalo that has been used up to now is the value at which, z=0, all structures are completed (Ghingna et al 1998). In this case, the orbital information we use has the problem that the present universe and the past universe have the same orbit distribution, and we are not able to use a uniform sample because we have not used a definite merging candidate. In order to solve this problem, the parental halos of each halo are searched through the numerical simulation without using only the information of the present time, and then the orbit information is used to find the actually merging halo using the connected halo rings over various times (Tormen 1997; Vitvitska et al. 2002; Khochfar & Burkert 2006; Benson 2005). Although we have devised a method to derive the orbit information of the halo halo more realistically and accurately from the existing studies, the orbit information of the halo halo occurring at various times has not yet been studied. Dekel (2009) suggests that both galaxies of masses much larger than the present universe in the past universe and galaxies of masses complement the star-producing material with the structural movement of cold gas. It tells us that the modes are different.
The merge hierarchy (Merger Tree) used in most semi-analytic models can be roughly divided into two methods (Somerville & Kolatt 1999; Sheth & Lemson 1999; Cole et al. 2000, Monte Carlo method and numerical simulation (Kauffmann,White & Guiderdoni 1993). The process of creating a mechanical model from the Merger Tree uses the initial orbital information distribution of the current subhalo. The distribution of early orbital information of the subhalo as well as the merge hierarchy is important to understand more realistic galaxy formation and evolution.
